<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Preface</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="preface" epub:type="preface">
			<p>The Trilogy of The Epic of the Wheat includes the following novels:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Octopus</i>, a Story of California.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Pit</i>, a Story of Chicago.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Wolf</i>, a Story of Europe.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p>These novels, while forming a series, will be in no way connected with each other save only in their relation to (1) the production, (2) the distribution, (3) the consumption of American wheat. When complete, they will form the story of a crop of wheat from the time of its sowing as seed in California to the time of its consumption as bread in a village of Western Europe.</p>
			<p>The first novel, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Octopus</i>, deals with the war between the wheat grower and the Railroad Trust; the second, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Pit</i>, is the fictitious narrative of a “deal” in the Chicago wheat pit; while the third, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Wolf</i>, will probably have for its pivotal episode the relieving of a famine in an Old World community.</p>
			<p>The author’s most sincere thanks for assistance rendered in the preparation of the following novel are due to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">G. D.</abbr> Moulson of New York, whose unwearied patience and untiring kindness helped him to the better understanding of the technical difficulties of a very complicated subject. And more especially he herewith acknowledges his unmeasured obligation and gratitude to Her Who Helped the Most of All.</p>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:signature">
					<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">F. N.</abbr>
				</p>
				<p>New York<br/>
				<time datetime="1901-06-04">June 4, 1901.</time></p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
